1. Find all types of movies in the database.

select distinct type from movie;


2. Find all the information about the star whose number is 4.
select * from tanja.star where snumber = 4;

3. Find the name, year and city of birth of the star whose number is 50.
select fname, lname, born, city from tanja.star where snumber=50;


4. List the names of all stars born in or after 1950.
select fname, lname from tanja.star where born >= 1950 ;


5. List the numbers and titles of all movies made between 1965 and 1975.
select mnumber, title from tanja.movie where year between 1965 and 1975;
select mnumber, title from tanja.movie where year>=1965 and year<=1975;


6. List the numbers and titles of all movies whose type is fantasy or romance.
select mnumber, title from tanja.movie where type = fantasy or type = romance;
select mnumber, title from tanja.movie where type in ('romance', 'fantasy');


7. Find the name, year and city of birth for every star born in 1920s who is still living.
select fname, lname, born, city from tanja.star where born between 1920 and 1929 and died is null;


8. Produce a list of numbers of all stars that acted in movies number 85 to 91.

select distinct star from stars where movie between 85 and 91;

9. For all directors who are deceased, list their names and how long they lived.
select fname, lname, died - born from director where died is not null;


10. Find the total number of awards won by comedies.
select sum(aawon) from movie where type='comedy';


11. List the titles of all movies and the names of their directors.
select title, director.fname, director.lname from movie
join director
    on director.dnumber = movie.director;


12. Find the name of the star who played Vronsky in the movie entitled 'Anna Karenina'.
select star.fname, star.lname from stars
join star on stars.star = star.snumber
join movie on stars.movie = movie.mnumber
where movie.title='Anna Karenina' and role = 'Vronksky';


The queries for the REGISTRATION database

1. Find the different types of vehicle in the database.


2. Get plate numbers, makes and models of all cars imported from Japan.
3. Produce a list of all vehicles, showing only the plate numbers and the year of
manufacture. Order the tuples by the year.
4. List the names of all owners. Sort the output by last name descending and by first name
ascending.
5. For each car, show the plates number and the name of the current owner.
/home/cosc/student/rni34/Downloads/
